Troubleshooting is another form of solving a problem, it is often applied on repairing failed products and/or processes on a machine or a system. It is the logical and systematic searching for the root of a problem, for the purpose of solve it, and make the process operational again according to its functionality. Troubleshooting is badly needed on identifying the errors/problems on a machine or system. Upon solving systematically we must follow a certain step on solving and one of which is the process of elimination, it is the processing of eliminating the potential cause of a problem. And most of all, troubleshooting is requiring the confirmation that the solution restored the functionality or process of the machine or system.
In general, troubleshooting is the diagnostic of trouble in the management flow of a system caused by failure or any form of misbehaviour in the system. A problem is described as the symptoms of malfunctioning, and troubleshooting is the process of determining and looking for a solution to the causes of malfunction.
A system can be described in terms of its expected, or intended behaviour. The inputs to the system are expected to generate a specified result or output. Any unexpected or undesirable behaviour is a sign of a trouble that is taking place. Troubleshooting is also a systematic isolation on the specific cause of the trouble. Frequently the trouble is the failure of the product or process to produce any results or output. Corrective action must be taken to prevent further failures of a kind.

On my experience on this class I admit that “Yes, we’ve read about this and that about troubleshooting but only on the theoretical side”. I also considered that we can experience also troubleshooting not just at school it just depends on your courage to do so but as well as provided that you are already knowledgeable on some parts or instances. And one of which is what are the guidelines in troubleshooting? Using a clear and logical approach on working quickly, efficiently, economically, and exercise safety precautions. And also followed by what are the steps of troubleshooting? Verifying that there is a problem actually existing, A problem usually is indicated by a change in performance or product quality. Verification of the problem will either provide you with indications of the cause if a problem actually existing or prevent you from wasting time and effort on ghost problems caused by the operator's lack of understanding. Do not simply accept a report that something is wrong without personally verifying the failure. A few minutes invested up front can save a lot of time. Isolating the cause of the problem, Trouble is often caused by a sudden change in the system. A thorough understanding of the system, its modes of operation, and how the modes of operation are supposed to work, the easier it will be to find the cause of the trouble. This knowledge allows the troubleshooter to compare normal conditions to actual conditions.

Talking about sir max, he is a nice guy to be with because he can relate to the students and we understand that he is still on his transition period of being a teacher, we hope that on our coming subjects he will handle some of them and learn about many things with sir max. I’m hoping that on his journey being an instructor, his success and more achievements to come, words are not enough to express my gratitude that he help us during the time that we did not know what to do. I learn from him that following your own philosophy in life with be a great factor in your development for as long s you are not hurting anyone, and thou you hurt anyone for as long as it is for your good sake well, it is quite good to consider it. Sir max is also a tough instructor because he still able to manage his time on helping other students especially on their thesis. We hope that if time comes that we are on same situation he will help us out.

